#  DOCKER ASSIGNMENT
## HOW DO I BUILD A DOCKER IMAGE FROM A DOCKERFILE ?
   Step 1 - Create a working directory.

             mkdir template #and change to this directory
             cd templates
          * create a "html.index" file

   Step 2 - Select a base image.

          * FROM python3.9-slim

   Step 3 - Create a Dockerfile.

   Step 4 - Add build instructions to the Dockerfile.

          * base image
          * working directory
          * mention the required packages and dependencies
          * copy rest of the code(copy . .) and
          * mention the entry point
   Step 5 - Build the image using the Docker build command. 
          
          * docker build -t my_flask-app

   Step 6 - Verify the built Docker image

          * docker image ls


## HOW DO I LIST ALL DOCKER IMAGES ON MY SYSTEM ?

     *  docker image ls


## HOW DO I RUN A DOCKER CONTAINER FROM AN IMAGE ?
 
     * DOCKER RUN -p 5000:5000 --name my-flask-container  my-flask-app

## HOW DO I LIST ALL RUNNING DOCKER CONTAINERS ?
    
     * If we use the below command with no options, it’ll list all the running containers:
        - docker container ls

## HOW DO I LIST ALL CONTAINERS( INCLUDING STOPPED ONES) ?

     * docker container ls -a

## HOW DO I STOP A RUNNING DOCKER CONTAINER ?

     * docker container stop my-flask-container

## HOW DO I REMOVE A DOCKER CONTAINER ?
 
     * docker container rm  my-flask-container 

## HOW DO I REMOVE A IMAGE ?
   
     * docker image rm my-flask-app

# how do i execute a command inside a running docker container ?

* The docker exec command allows you to run commands directly in a Docker container. This is particularly useful when performing specific tasks or executing scripts within the container’s environment. 
 
     * syntax : docker exec my-flask-container uptime

## How to check docker running container logs?

* The " mdocker logs " command shows the log messages generated inside the container, while the " docker service logs " command shows the logs generated by a service within the container.
     
     * docker logs <options> <containerID>